docs/developer.md, before:

# bbctl

CLI tool to simplify development, deployment, auditing and troubleshooting of BigBang in a kubernetes cluster.

## Contributing

Code contributions from the community are welcomed. Steps to contribute:
1. Create an issue in this project. See the [issues page](https://repo1.dso.mil/big-bang/product/packages/bbctl/-/issues)
1. Fill in relevant information about the issue so that others can understand what it is for 
1. Assign yourself to the issue so that it is clear that you are contributing code verses just reporting an issue.
1. View the issue in the Gitlab UI, and from there you can create a branch and a corresponding merge request.
1. A simple pipeline pipeline with linting and unit tests will automatically run for merge requets.
1. When your code is ready add a ```status::review``` label to the merge request
1. Code owners will review, test, and merge as appropriate.
1. Code owners will create a release tag and a package will be built by the PartyBus mission devops pipeline.

### Contribution conditions

1. The code must include a minimum of 80% unit test coverage
1. The code must pass lint test
1. Help resolve any security issues found in the mission ops pipeline

## Development Environment 

The CLI tool is developed in Go language and uses the [cobra](https://github.com/spf13/cobra/) library to implement commands.

### Install Golang

Follow the instructions in official Go document for the specific development platform:
https://golang.org/doc/install

Define an environment variables GOPATH and GOROOT
```bash
export GOPATH=$HOME/go
export GOROOT=/usr/local/go
```

Create directories and set PATH environment variable
```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/go/{bin,src,pkg}
export PATH="$PATH:${GOPATH}/bin"
```

Clone the repo such that the bbctl is available in the following location:
```bash
$GOPATH/src/repo1.dso.mil/big-bang/product/packages/bbctl
```
Make the environment variables permanent by setting them in your shell's rc `~/.bash_rc` or equivalent for alternative shells.
```bash
# support for GoLang development
export GOPATH=$HOME/go
export GOROOT=/usr/local/go
export PATH="$PATH:${GOPATH}/bin:${GOROOT}/bin"
```

### Install cobra

```bash
go get -u github.com/spf13/cobra
```

### Add new commands with cobra

The base command is defined in cmd.go and new subcommands are added in NewRootCmd function. Follow list.go as an example to create a new subommand. Refer to [command semantics](/docs/command.md) for the practices followed in naming bbctl commands.

### Build only with no local install

Execute the following from the project root to build the binary without local install
```bash
go build
```

Run the built binary using dot-slash
```bash
./bbctl -h
```

### Build and Install

Execute the following from the project root to build the executable and make it available in $GOPATH/bin directory:
```bash
go install
```

Run the installed bbctl tool
```bash
bbctl -h
```

### Run unit tests

```bash
go test -v ./... -coverprofile=cover.txt
```

### Run lint checks

Linting checks code quality based on best practice. For now the [linter tool](https://github.com/golang/lint) is the one from the golang project. To manually run the linter follow these steps.  
1. install the tool
    ```bash
    go install golang.org/x/lint/golint@latest
    ```
2. Run the linter from this project's root directory
    ```bash
    golint -set_exit_status ./...
    ```

## Development Tasks

Here some common development tasks will be laid out with common issues and solutions.

### Upgrading

```bash
go get -u

# You should immediately build and run tests afterwards
go build
go test -v ./... -coverprofile=cover.txt
```

#### Problem Packages

1. `oras.land/oras-go` and `github.com/docker/docker`
    1. If you get failures from doing that in relation to `oras.land/oras-go` check if the package `github.com/docker/docker` got upgraded. Oras seems to depend on a bunch of incompatible versions of packages and that one causes build issues.
    1. Last seen 1/19/2024

#### Debugging New Problem Packages

1. If that isn't the issue use the following to find it's dependencies.
    ```bash
    go mod graph | grep "name/of/package/throwing/error.go"
    ```
1. Revert all of those, then see if it works with a build/test.
    1. If it does commit, then start adding those upgrades back in one at a time and make a list of problem package(s)
    1. If it doesn't
        1. If there is a new error start this process again for that error as well
        1. If it's the same error, ensure you reverted all of the dependencies
            1. Most often one was simply missed from the list generated by the initial `go mod graph`
            1. Note some may be intermediate meaning you'd need to do the `go mod graph` for the level 1 dependencies to get the level 2. This is relatively rare though.
1. Note the new problem packages [here](#problem-packages)

Commit message:

Added a credentials file, fixed a bunch of linting issues (there are still...

docs/developer.md, after:

# bbctl

CLI tool to simplify development, deployment, auditing and troubleshooting of BigBang in a kubernetes cluster.

## Contributing

Code contributions from the community are welcomed. Steps to contribute:
1. Create an issue in this project. See the [issues page](https://repo1.dso.mil/big-bang/product/packages/bbctl/-/issues)
1. Fill in relevant information about the issue so that others can understand what it is for 
1. Assign yourself to the issue so that it is clear that you are contributing code verses just reporting an issue.
1. View the issue in the Gitlab UI, and from there you can create a branch and a corresponding merge request.
1. A simple pipeline pipeline with linting and unit tests will automatically run for merge requests.
1. When your code is ready add a ```status::review``` label to the merge request
1. Code owners will review, test, and merge as appropriate.
1. Code owners will create a release tag and a package will be built by the PartyBus mission devops pipeline.

### Contribution conditions

1. The code must include a minimum of 80% unit test coverage
1. The code must pass lint test
1. Help resolve any security issues found in the mission ops pipeline

## Development Environment 

The CLI tool is developed in Go language and uses the [cobra](https://github.com/spf13/cobra/) library to implement commands.

### Install Golang

Follow the instructions in official Go document for the specific development platform:
https://golang.org/doc/install

Define an environment variables GOPATH and GOROOT
```bash
export GOPATH=$HOME/go
export GOROOT=/usr/local/go
```

Create directories and set PATH environment variable
```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/go/{bin,src,pkg}
export PATH="$PATH:${GOPATH}/bin"
```

Clone the repo such that the bbctl is available in the following location (clone it there or run `ln -s real-location gopath-location`):
```bash
$GOPATH/src/repo1.dso.mil/big-bang/product/packages/bbctl
```

Make the environment variables permanent by setting them in your shell's rc `~/.bash_rc` or equivalent for alternative shells.
```bash
# support for GoLang development
export GOPATH=$HOME/go
export GOROOT=/usr/local/go
export PATH="$PATH:${GOPATH}/bin:${GOROOT}/bin"
```

### Install cobra

```bash
go get -u github.com/spf13/cobra
```

### Add new commands with cobra

The base command is defined in cmd.go and new subcommands are added in NewRootCmd function. Follow list.go as an example to create a new subcommand. Refer to [command semantics](/docs/command.md) for the practices followed in naming bbctl commands.

### Build only with no local install

Execute the following from the project root to build the binary without local install
```bash
make build
# OR
go build
```

Run the built binary using dot-slash
```bash
make run version
# OR
./bbctl version
```

### Build and Install

Execute the following from the project root to build the executable and make it available in $GOPATH/bin directory:
```bash
make install
# OR
go install
```

Run the installed bbctl tool
```bash
bbctl version
```

### Run unit tests

```bash
make coverage
# OR
make test
# OR
go test -v ./... -coverprofile=cover.txt
```

### Run lint checks

Linting checks code quality based on best practice. For now the [linter tool](https://golangci-lint.run/welcome/install/) is no longer [the one from the golang project](https://github.com/golang/lint) as it's deprecated. To manually run the linter follow these steps.  
1. install the tool
    ```bash
    go install github.com/golangci/golangci-lint/cmd/golangci-lint@latest
    ```
2. Run the linter from this project's root directory
    ```bash
    make lint
    # OR
    golangci-lint run ./...
    ```
3. Set it up in vscode
    1. Open User Settings (visual)
    1. Search for golang
    1. Change the `Go: Lint Tool` to `golangci-lint`

## Development Tasks

Here some common development tasks will be laid out with common issues and solutions.

### Upgrading

```bash
go get -u

# You should immediately build and run tests afterwards
make all
# OR
go build
go test -v -coverprofile=test.out -cover ./...
```

#### Problem Packages

1. `oras.land/oras-go` and `github.com/docker/docker`
    1. If you get failures from doing that in relation to `oras.land/oras-go` check if the package `github.com/docker/docker` got upgraded. Oras seems to depend on a bunch of incompatible versions of packages and that one causes build issues.
    1. Last seen 1/19/2024

#### Debugging New Problem Packages

1. If that isn't the issue use the following to find it's dependencies.
    ```bash
    go mod graph | grep "name/of/package/throwing/error.go"
    ```
1. Revert all of those, then see if it works with a build/test.
    1. If it does commit, then start adding those upgrades back in one at a time and make a list of problem package(s)
    1. If it doesn't
        1. If there is a new error start this process again for that error as well
        1. If it's the same error, ensure you reverted all of the dependencies
            1. Most often one was simply missed from the list generated by the initial `go mod graph`
            1. Note some may be intermediate meaning you'd need to do the `go mod graph` for the level 1 dependencies to get the level 2. This is relatively rare though.
1. Note the new problem packages [here](#problem-packages)
